***SQLcl***
# Use case:
   ### 2 environments - DEV and UAT.
   ### UAT is more actual than DEV.
   ### You want to move all extra / changed objects from  UAT to DEV
   ### At the end DEV = UAT.  All extra or different procs, functions, tables or columns should be added or changed automatically.
   ### Yes, you could use Data Pump to do this, but in this case, we want to use only SQLcl Liquibase

# Prepare environments (script executed by "hand" or using SQLcl directly. We're not using Liquiabse yet!)
  # 1.1 Execute script (prepares DEV and UAT and creates objects on DEV)
    sql /nolog
    @demo/prepare_demo/demo.sql
  #  1.2 Make sure to create objects on UAT. You can execute this on UAT:
    @demo/prepare_demo/scripts/sql/objects/create_objects.sql
  # 1.3 Make some changes on UAT. As a result, UAT should be different from DEV.
  ### Execute this on UAT (this objects will exist on UAT only)
      CREATE TABLE locations
       ( location_id    NUMBER(4)
       , street_address VARCHAR2(40)
       , postal_code    VARCHAR2(12)
       , city       VARCHAR2(30)
    CONSTRAINT     loc_city_nn  NOT NULL
       , state_province VARCHAR2(25)
       , country_id     CHAR(2)
       ) ;
   CREATE UNIQUE INDEX loc_id_pk
   ON locations (location_id) ;
   ALTER TABLE locations
   ADD ( CONSTRAINT loc_id_pk
               PRIMARY KEY (location_id)
       , CONSTRAINT loc_c_id_fk
               FOREIGN KEY (country_id)
              REFERENCES countries(country_id) 
       ) ;
  ### And execute this on UAT (data type on DEV is VARCHAR2(30))
 ALTER TABLE departments MODIFY department_name  VARCHAR2(60);

  # Synchronize DEV and UAT with Liquibase. In other words - "tell" Liquibase that THIS is my actual state of DEV and UAT
  1. Remove everything from /database/ folder (or create it if it does not exist). Create new folders inside called dev and uat
    cd database
    mkdir dev
    mkdir uat
    ### Synchronize DEV
  2. Enter dev folder
    cd database/dev
  2.1 Connect to DEV (called RAFAL in my demo) schema with SQLcl and capture the current state of the database (just like we did in DEMO 1)
    sql /nolog
    conn RAFAL/Qwerty12345$@rgatp28_low
    lb generate-schema --split
  2.2 Execute changelog-sync command using generated controller.xml (This command will create the DATABASECHANGELOG table and insert rows into it. It will not create any objects that not related to Liquibase!)
    lb changelog-sync --changelog-file controller.xml
    ### Synchronize UAT
  3. Enter uat folder
    cd database/uat
  3.1.Connect to UAT (called RAFAL in my demo) schema with SQLcl and capture the current state of the database ( just like we did in DEMO 1)
    sql /nolog
    conn RAFAL/Qwerty12345$@rguat_low
    lb generate-schema --split
  3.2 Execute changelog-sync command using generated controller.xml (This command will create the DATABASECHANGELOG table and insert rows into it. It will not create any objects that not related to Liquibase!)
    lb changelog-sync --changelog-file controller.xml
  3.3 Currently, Liquibase "knows" the actual state of objects on DEV and UAT.

    ### Preview SQL script that will be used to make the DEV database equal to UAT
  4. Go to database/uat because we need to use objects captured from UAT
  cd database/uat
  4.1 connect with SQLcl to DEV
  sql /nolog
  conn RAFAL/Qwerty12345$@rgatp28_uat
  4.1 Run the update-sql command to preview SQL before executing anything to your database
  lb update-sql --changelog-file controller.xml --output-file dev_preview.sql
  
  Check generated SQL. Apart from inserting/updating into databasechangelog and databasechangelog_actions tables, it will run statements that will modify the departments table and add locations table. That's exactly what we expected.

  ### Run update on DEV to move all objects from UAT
  5. Execute update command
     lb update --changelog-file controller.xml
  5.1 Run this query on both DEV and UAT to check if the amount of objects is the same (it should)
    select object_name, 
     object_type
    from user_objects
    order by object_type, object_name;

      ######## GIT commit with message "DEMO 4 | SQLcl - make your databases equal". DO NOT PUSH!


